- [Instructor] When using CDI,
it is important to understand the concept of scopes.
Scopes allows us to associate a bean
with a context which determines the visibility
of the bean and helps manage its lifecycle.
The default scope for a bean is dependent.
Since we have not provided a scope
for our LocalInventoryService bean,
it is dependent scope
and will assume the scope of the bean it is injected into.
So if we take a look at our CatalogItemFormbean
where we are injecting our inventoryService,
you'll notice that it is SessionScoped
and that will cause our inventoryService
to be SessionScoped as well.
Now, we can see this in action
if we open the application in two browsers.
So let me just expand our console
and then we're going to go ahead
and enter a product into our application running
in Internet Explorer.
So we'll use Gloves
and we'll say it's produced by SuperGloves
and then provide a date
and then just a description
and you'll see
that our Local inventory contains gloves.
Now, we're going to hop over to Chrome
and we're going to run another test,
this time we'll use mittens.
So SuperMittens and we'll say Test2.
And now when we see the output
from our LocalInventoryService bean,
you'll notice that it contains mittens.
And if we were to add another item,
let's say that we want to go with soccer ball
and it's made by Sports Balls.
And we'll just keep those fields the same.
There you can see that once again,
it goes into that local inventory service
that is scoped to the session associated
with the browser.
So that explains session scope within CDI.
There's also RequestScope.
So we can change our LocalInventoryService
over to RequestScoped.
It doesn't make a lot of sense
but it'll just be good to see it in action
and it will help you better understand the scopes.
So here we're switching to RequestScoped
and you want to use the javax.entreprise.context package.
And with that in place,
I'm just going to go ahead
and here I can republish our application.
And we can run that test again
once the application loads.
So I'll clear a console
and what you'll notice this time
is that we won't maintain any state.
So for example, I'm going to go ahead and our gloves back in.
Okay.
So we have the gloves
and now let's go back and we're going to enter the mittens
and we can say they're from SuperMittens
and this time you'll notice
that we lost the gloves
and that's because the bean
is scoped to the request.
So it's not going to maintain any state over the session
for the browser.
And that's because of the lifecycle and its scope.
Now, we can take a look at the final scope
which is ApplicationScoped.
So we'll go ahead,
go back and modify our LocalInventoryService bean.
We can switch it over to ApplicationScoped.
We'll import that annotation
and this is basically going to cause a single instance
of this bean to be used throughout our application.
So once again, I'll go and I'll publish our application.
And then looks like it's deployed
and we'll go, click on our form.
Now here we are in Chrome.
So let's go ahead, we'll add the gloves.
K, there we can see we've got the gloves
and now if we navigate back to Internet Explorer,
we can go back to our form
and this time, we're going to add in mittens.
And then we're going to set our date.
And here you'll notice
that because our LocalInventoryService is ApplicationScoped,
that state or that instance
of the bean is persistent across both browsers.
It's no longer tied to the session.
So that's a look at scopes
within CDI and we can use them to control the lifecycle
of our beans.